# v0.7.0

**CADET-Process** v0.7.0 is the culmination of 10 months of hard work.
It contains many new features, numerous bug-fixes, improved test coverage and better
documentation.
There have been a number of deprecations and API changes in this release, which are documented below.
All users are encouraged to upgrade to this release, as there are a large number of bug-fixes and
optimizations.

This release requires Python 3.8+


## Highlights of this release
- Complete overhaul of optimization problem structure:
    - Evaluation objects
    - Evaluators
    - Caching using diskcache
- Add optimization variable normalization.
- Complete overhaul of optimization results.
    - Improved plots for objectives space, Pareto fronts.
    - Improved checkpoints.
- Check functions before running simulations and optimizations.
- Add Parameter Sensitivities.
- Provide derivatives and anti-derivatives of solution objects.
- Allow slicing solution in any dimension (including components).
- Add Yamamoto's method to determine isotherm parameters.
- Complete overhaul of documentation:
    - Improved docstrings coverage
    - New user guide
- Many new unit and integration tests.

## Issues closed for 0.7.0
- [2](https://github.com/fau-advanced-separations/CADET-Process/issues/2): Add Parameter Sensitivities
- [10](https://github.com/fau-advanced-separations/CADET-Process/issues/10): Update Pymoo Interface to v0.6.0


## Pull requests for 0.7.0
- [13](https://github.com/fau-advanced-separations/CADET-Process/pull/13): Change normalization for NRMSE from max solution to max reference
- [16](https://github.com/fau-advanced-separations/CADET-Process/pull/16): Overhaul docs
